[2.7] Setup/Teardown guide (#2624)
astronomer/docs: learn/airflow-setup-teardown.md

- `inner_worker_1` and `inner_worker_2` are worker tasks that are in scope of the inner setup/teardown pair. All tasks in scope of the inner setup/teardown pair will also be in scope of the outer setup/teardown pair.
- `outer_worker_1`, `outer_worker_2`, `outer_worker_3` are worker tasks that are in scope of the outer setup/teardown pair

```python
outer_setup_obj = outer_setup()
inner_setup_obj = inner_setup()
outer_teardown_obj = outer_teardown()

(
    outer_setup_obj
    >> inner_setup_obj
    >> [inner_worker_1(), inner_worker_2()]
    >> inner_teardown().as_teardown(setups=inner_setup_obj)
    >> [outer_worker_1(), outer_worker_2()]
    >> outer_teardown_obj.as_teardown(setups=outer_setup_obj)
)

outer_setup_obj >> outer_worker_3() >> outer_teardown_obj
```

![Setup/teardown nesting](/img/guides/airflow-setup-teardown_nesting.png)

Clearing a task will clear all setups and teardowns of all scopes a task is in, additionally to all downstream tasks. For example:

- clearing any of the outer worker tasks (`outer_worker_1`, `outer_worker_2`, `outer_worker_3`) will clear `outer_setup`, `outer_teardown` in addition to the worker task itself

> - clearing any of the inner worker tasks (`inner_worker_1`, `inner_worker_2`) will clear `inner_setup`, `inner_teardown`, `outer_setup`, `outer_teardown` as the setup and teardown tasks of the two scopes that these tasks are in. Additionally `outer_worker_1` and `outer_worker_2` will be cleared because they are downstream of the inner worker tasks. `outer_worker_3` will not be cleared because it runs parallel to the inner worker tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Clearing any of the inner worker tasks (`inner_worker_1`, `inner_worker_2`) will clear `inner_setup`, `inner_teardown`, `outer_setup`, and `outer_teardown`. Additionally `outer_worker_1` and `outer_worker_2` will be cleared because they are downstream of the inner worker tasks. `outer_worker_3` will not be cleared because it runs parallel to the inner worker tasks.
```

```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

#### Add multiple setup/teardown tasks to one grouping

To define several setup tasks for one teardown task you can pass a list of setup tasks to the `setups` argument. You do not need to call `.as_setup()` on any of the setup tasks.

```python
(
    [my_setup_task_obj_1, my_setup_task_obj_2, my_setup_task_obj_3]
    >> worker_task()
    >> my_teardown_task().as_teardown(
        setups=[my_setup_task_obj_1, my_setup_task_obj_2, my_setup_task_obj_3]
    )
)
```

![Setup/teardown relationships multiple setup](/img/guides/airflow-setup-teardown-multiple_setups_decorators.png)

To define several teardown tasks for one setup task you have to provide the setup task object to the `setups` argument of the `.as_teardown()` method of each teardown task.

```python
(
    my_setup_task_obj
    >> worker_task()
    >> [
        my_teardown_task_obj_1.as_teardown(setups=my_setup_task_obj),
        my_teardown_task_obj_2.as_teardown(setups=my_setup_task_obj),
        my_teardown_task_obj_3.as_teardown(setups=my_setup_task_obj),
    ]
)
```

![Setup/teardown relationships multiple setup](/img/guides/airflow-setup-teardown-multiple_teardowns_decorators.png)

> If you have several setup and/or several teardown tasks belonging together, you need to define the dependency between each setup and each teardown when using direct dependencies to define the setup/teardown relationship.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have a DAG with several setup and teardown tasks belonging together, you need to define explicit dependencies between each setup and each teardown to define the setup/teardown relationship.
```

Reviewer 2: Not sure if I got this right, but in any case the sentence could use some clarification. Try to simplify this and break it down into several sentences if needed.

```python
(
    [my_setup_task_obj_1.as_setup(), my_setup_task_obj_2.as_setup()]
    >> worker_task()
    >> [my_teardown_task_obj_1.as_teardown(), my_teardown_task_obj_2.as_teardown()]
)

# defining the dependency between each setup and each teardown task
my_setup_task_obj_1 >> my_teardown_task_obj_1
my_setup_task_obj_1 >> my_teardown_task_obj_2
my_setup_task_obj_2 >> my_teardown_task_obj_1
my_setup_task_obj_2 >> my_teardown_task_obj_2
```

This code creates an identical DAG using the `setups` argument.

```python
(
    [my_setup_task_obj_1, my_setup_task_obj_2]
    >> worker_task()
    >> [
        my_teardown_task_obj_1.as_teardown(
            setups=[my_setup_task_obj_1, my_setup_task_obj_2]
        ),
        my_teardown_task_obj_2.as_teardown(
            setups=[my_setup_task_obj_1, my_setup_task_obj_2]
        ),
    ]
)
```

![Multiple setups/teardowns](/img/guides/airflow-setup-teardown-multiple_setups_and_teardowns.png)

> ### Parallel setup/teardown groupings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Parallel setup/teardown groupings
```
These are still part of the last h3 right?

)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="methods">

```python
@task
def my_cluster_setup_task():
    print("Setting up resources!")
    my_cluster_id = "cluster-2319"
    return my_cluster_id

@task
def my_cluster_worker_task():
    return "Doing some work!"

@task
def my_cluster_teardown_task(my_cluster_id):
    return f"Tearing down {my_cluster_id}!"

@task
def my_database_setup_task():
    print("Setting up my database!")
    my_database_name = "DWH"
    return my_database_name

@task
def my_database_worker_task():
    return "Doing some work!"

@task
def my_database_teardown_task(my_database_name):
    return f"Tearing down {my_database_name}!"

my_setup_task_obj = my_cluster_setup_task()
(
    my_setup_task_obj
    >> my_cluster_worker_task()
    >> my_cluster_teardown_task(my_setup_task_obj).as_teardown(
        setups=my_setup_task_obj
    )
)

my_database_setup_obj = my_database_setup_task()
(
    my_database_setup_obj
    >> my_database_worker_task()
    >> my_database_teardown_task(my_database_setup_obj).as_teardown(
        setups=my_database_setup_obj
    )
)
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

![Parallel groups of Setup/teardown](/img/guides/airflow-setup-teardown-parallel_st.png)

> ### Nested setup/teardown groupings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Nested setup/teardown groupings
```

```python
outer_setup_obj = outer_setup()
inner_setup_obj = inner_setup()
outer_teardown_obj = outer_teardown()

(
    outer_setup_obj
    >> inner_setup_obj
    >> [inner_worker_1(), inner_worker_2()]
    >> inner_teardown().as_teardown(setups=inner_setup_obj)
    >> [outer_worker_1(), outer_worker_2()]
    >> outer_teardown_obj.as_teardown(setups=outer_setup_obj)
)

outer_setup_obj >> outer_worker_3() >> outer_teardown_obj
```

![Setup/teardown nesting](/img/guides/airflow-setup-teardown_nesting.png)

Clearing a task will clear all setups and teardowns the task is in scope of, in addition to all downstream tasks. For example:

- Clearing any of the outer worker tasks (`outer_worker_1`, `outer_worker_2`, `outer_worker_3`) will also clear `outer_setup`, `outer_teardown`.
- Clearing any of the inner worker tasks (`inner_worker_1`, `inner_worker_2`) will clear `inner_setup`, `inner_teardown`, `outer_setup`, and `outer_teardown`. Additionally `outer_worker_1` and `outer_worker_2` will be cleared because they are downstream of the inner worker tasks. `outer_worker_3` will not be cleared because it runs parallel to the inner worker tasks.

### Narrowing the scope of a setup task

> If you have a setup task with no associated downstream task you can narrow the scope of the setup task by using an empty task as its teardown. For example, if `my_worker_task_3_obj` does not need the resources created by `my_setup_task` and should not cause a rerun of the setup task when cleared, you can add an empty teardown task in the dependency chain:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have a setup task with no associated downstream task, you can narrow the scope of the setup task by using an empty task as its teardown. For example, if `my_worker_task_3_obj` does not need the resources created by `my_setup_task` and should not cause a rerun of the setup task when cleared, you can add an empty teardown task in the dependency chain:
```

```python
my_setup_task >> [my_worker_task_1_obj >> my_worker_task_2_obj] >> my_worker_task_3_obj

[my_worker_task_1_obj >> my_worker_task_2_obj] >> EmptyOperator(
    task_id="empty_task"
).as_teardown(setups=my_setup_task)
```

## Example DAG

The DAG shown in this example mimics a setup/teardown pattern that you can run locally: 

- The `create_csv` file will create a CSV file in a directory specified as a [DAG param](airflow-params.md). This task has been turned into a setup task.
- The `delete_csv` task is the associated teardown task, deleting the resource of the CSV file.

> - The `fetch_data`, `write_to_csv` and `get_average_age_obj` tasks are in the scope of the setup/teardown grouping. Any failure in these tasks would still need the resource "CSV file" to be deleted afterwards (we will pretend the CSV file is an expensive cluster). To recover from a failure, when rerunning any of these tasks, we always need the CSV file to be created again, which automatically happens by rerunning the `create_csv` task when any of the tasks in scope are cleared.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `fetch_data`, `write_to_csv` and `get_average_age_obj` tasks are in the scope of the setup/teardown grouping. Any failure in these tasks would still need the resource "CSV file" to be deleted afterwards (to make it more real, consider the CSV file to be an expensive cluster). To recover from a failure when rerunning any of these tasks, you always need the CSV file to be created again, which automatically happens by rerunning the `create_csv` task when any of the tasks in scope are cleared.
```

> This DAG comes with a convenience parameter to test setup/teardown functionality. Toggle `fetch_bad_data` in the **Trigger DAG** view to cause bad data to get into the pipeline and the `get_average_age_obj` to fail, you will see that `delete_csv` will still run and delete the CSV file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This DAG comes with a convenience parameter to test setup/teardown functionality. Toggle `fetch_bad_data` in the **Trigger DAG** view to cause bad data to get into the pipeline and the `get_average_age_obj` to fail. You will see that `delete_csv` will still run and delete the CSV file.
```

    ![Successful DAG with failed teardown](/img/guides/airflow-setup-teardown_teardown_fail_dag_succeed.png)

- When a teardown task is within a [task group](task-groups.md) and a dependency is set on the task group, the teardown task will be ignored when evaluating if a dependency has been met. For example, `run_after_taskgroup`, which is dependent on the `work_in_the_cluster` task group, will run even if the teardown task has failed or is still running.

    ![Task group with teardown](/img/guides/airflow-setup-teardown-task_after_taskgroup.png)

- You can have a setup task without an associated teardown task and vice versa. If you define a setup task without a teardown task, everything downstream of the setup task is considered in its scope and will cause the setup task to rerun when cleared.

### Before and after using setup and teardown tasks

> Setup and teardown tasks can help you write more robust DAGs by making sure resources are set up in the right moment and torn down even when worker tasks fail. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Setup and teardown tasks can help you write more robust DAGs by making sure resources are set up at the right moment and torn down even when worker tasks fail. 
```

For example, in the previous DAG, consider if `worker_task_2` failed and `worker_task_3` was unable to run due to its upstream task having failed. If you cleared `worker_task_2` by clicking **Clear task**, both the setup task `provision_cluster` and the teardown task `tear_down_cluster` will be cleared and rerun in addition to `worker_task_2` and `worker_task_3`. This lets you completely recover without needing to rerun `worker_task_1` or manually rerun individual tasks.

![DAG with setup/teardown - recovery](/img/guides/airflow-setup-teardown-clear_task.png)

## Setup/teardown implementation

There are two ways to turn tasks into setup/teardown tasks: 

- Using the `.as_setup()` and `.as_teardown()` methods on TaskFlow API tasks or traditional operators.
- Using the `@setup` and `@teardown` decorators on a Python function.

Worker tasks can be added to the scope of a setup/teardown grouping in two ways:

- By being between the setup and teardown tasks in the DAG dependency relationship.
- By using a context manager with the `.teardown()` method.

Which method you choose to add worker tasks to a setup/teardown scope is a matter of personal preference.

> You can define as many setup and teardown tasks in one DAG as you need. In order for Airflow to understand which setup and teardown tasks belong together, you need to [create setup/teardown groupings](#creating-setupteardown-groupings).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can define as many setup and teardown tasks in one DAG as you need. In order for Airflow to understand which setup and teardown tasks belong together, you need to [create setup/teardown workflows](#creating-setupteardown-workflows).
```

### `.as_setup()` and `.as_teardown()` methods

> Any individual tasks can be turned into setup or teardown task on its own.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any individual task can be turned into a setup or teardown task.
```

    values={[
        {label: 'TaskFlow API', value: 'taskflow'},
        {label: 'Traditional syntax', value: 'traditional'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="taskflow">

```python
@task
def worker_task():
    return "Doing some work!"

@task
def my_teardown_task():
    return "Tearing down resources!"

worker_task() >> my_teardown_task().as_teardown()

# it is also possible to call `.as_teardown()` on the task object
# my_teardown_task_obj = my_teardown_task()
# worker_task() >> my_teardown_task_obj.as_teardown()
```

![Teardown task decorator](/img/guides/airflow-setup-teardown_teardown_decorators.png)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="traditional">

```python
def worker_task_func():
    return "Doing some work!"

worker_task_obj = PythonOperator(
    task_id="worker_task",
    python_callable=worker_task_func,
)

def my_teardown_task_func():
    return "Setting up resources!"

my_teardown_task_obj = PythonOperator(
    task_id="my_teardown_task",
    python_callable=my_teardown_task_func,
)

worker_task_obj >> my_teardown_task_obj.as_teardown()
```

![Teardown task traditional](/img/guides/airflow-setup-teardown_teardown_traditional.png)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> After you have defined your setup and teardown tasks you need to [define their groupings](#creating-setupteardown-groupings) in order for Airflow to know which setup and teardown tasks perform actions on the same resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you have defined your setup and teardown tasks you need to [define their workflow](#creating-setupteardown-workflows) in order for Airflow to know which setup and teardown tasks perform actions on the same resources.
```

### `@setup` and `@teardown` decorators

When working with the TaskFlow API you can also use the `@setup()` and `@teardown()` decorators to turn any Python function into a setup or teardown task.

```python
from airflow.decorators import setup

@setup 
def my_setup_task():
    return "Setting up resources!"

my_setup_task()
```

![Setup task decorator](/img/guides/airflow-setup-teardown_setup_task_decorator.png)

As with the `.as_teardown()` method you cannot have a `@teardown` task without at least one upstream worker task. The worker task can use the `@task` decorator or be defined with a traditional operator.

```python
from airflow.decorators import task, teardown

@task 
def worker_task():
    return "Doing some work!"

@teardown
def my_teardown_task():
    return "Tearing down resources!"

worker_task() >> my_teardown_task()
```

![Teardown task decorator](/img/guides/airflow-setup-teardown_teardown_decorators.png)

> After you have defined your setup and teardown tasks you need to [define their groupings](#creating-setupteardown-groupings) in order for Airflow to know which setup and teardown tasks perform actions on the same resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you have defined your setup and teardown tasks you need to [define their groupings](#creating-setupteardown-workflows) in order for Airflow to know which setup and teardown tasks perform actions on the same resources.
```

### Creating setup/teardown groupings

Setup and teardown tasks can be combined into groupings by:

- Providing the setup task object to the `setups` argument in the `.as_teardown()` method of a teardown task object.
- Connecting a setup and a teardown task with a normal task dependency using the bit-shift operator (`>>`) or a dependency function like `chain()`.
- Providing the called object of a task created using the `@setup` decorator as an argument to a task created using the `@teardown` decorator.

Which method you use is a matter of personal preference. However, note that if you are using `@setup` and `@teardown` decorators, you cannot use the `setups` argument.

> You can have multiple sets of setup and teardown tasks in a DAG, both in [parallel](#parallel-setupteardown-groupings) and [nested](#nested-setupteardown-groupings).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can have multiple sets of setup and teardown tasks in a DAG, both in [parallel](#parallel-setupteardown-workflows) and [nested](#nested-setupteardown-workflows).
```

There are no limits to how many setup and teardown tasks you can have, nor are there limits to how many worker tasks you include in a grouping.

> For example, you could have one task that creates a cluster, a second task that modifies the environment within that cluster, and a third task that tears down the cluster. In this case you could define the first two tasks as setup tasks and the last one as a teardown task, all belonging to the same resource. In a second step you, could add 10 tasks performing actions on that cluster to the scope of the setup / teardown grouping.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, you could have one task that creates a cluster, a second task that modifies the environment within that cluster, and a third task that tears down the cluster. In this case you could define the first two tasks as setup tasks and the last one as a teardown task, all belonging to the same resource. In a second step, you could add 10 tasks performing actions on that cluster to the scope of the setup / teardown workflow.
```

There are multiple methods for linking setup and teardown tasks.

<Tabs
    defaultValue="taskflow_setups"

>     groupId="defining-setup-teardown-relationships"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    groupId="creating-setup-teardown-workflows"
```

    values={[
        {label: 'TaskFlow API setups argument', value: 'taskflow_setups'},
        {label: 'Traditional syntax setups argument', value: 'traditional_setups'},
        {label: 'Direct dependencies', value: 'taskflow_direct'},
        {label: 'Using setup/teardown decorators', value: 'decorators'},
        {label: 'Using a context manager', value: 'context_manager'},
    ]}>
<TabItem value="taskflow_setups">

> When using the TaskFlow API's `@task` decorator you can use the `.as_teardown()` method in the `setups` argument to define which setup tasks are being grouped with a teardown task. Note that it is also possible to use [`@setup` and `@teardown` decorators](#setup-and-teardown-decorators) instead and link them using direct dependencies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the `@task` decorator, you can use the `.as_teardown()` method in the `setups` argument to define which setup tasks are being grouped with a teardown task. Note that it is also possible to use [`@setup` and `@teardown` decorators](#setup-and-teardown-decorators) instead and link them using direct dependencies.
```

    >> worker_task()
    >> my_teardown_task_obj.as_teardown(setups=my_setup_task_obj)
)
```

![Setup/teardown method decorator](/img/guides/airflow-setup-teardown-relationships_decorators_1.png)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="decorators">

With the`@setup` and `@teardown` decorators, you can define the setup/teardown relationship between two tasks either by defining direct dependencies or by providing the object of the setup task as an argument to the teardown task.

The latter pattern is often used to pass information like a resource id from the setup task to the teardown task.

```python
from airflow.decorators import task, setup, teardown

@setup
def my_setup_task():
    print("Setting up resources!")
    my_cluster_id = "cluster-2319"
    return my_cluster_id

@task
def worker_task():
    return "Doing some work!"

@teardown
def my_teardown_task(my_cluster_id):
    return f"Tearing down {my_cluster_id}!"

my_setup_task_obj = my_setup_task()
my_setup_task_obj >> worker_task() >> my_teardown_task(my_setup_task_obj)
```

![Setup/Teardown method decorator](/img/guides/airflow-setup-teardown-relationships_decorators_1.png)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="context_manager">

> You can also use a task that calls the `.as_teardown()` method to wrap a set of tasks that should be in scope of a setup/teardown grouping. The code snippet below shows three tasks being in scope of the setup/teardown grouping created by `my_cluster_setup_task` and `my_cluster_teardown_task`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also use a task that calls the `.as_teardown()` method to wrap a set of tasks that should be in scope of a setup/teardown workflow. The code snippet below shows three tasks being in scope of the setup/teardown workflow created by `my_cluster_setup_task` and `my_cluster_teardown_task`.
```

```python
with my_cluster_teardown_task_obj.as_teardown(setups=my_cluster_setup_task_obj):
    worker_task_1() >> [worker_task_2(),  worker_task_3()]
```

![Setup/teardown created using a context manager](/img/guides/airflow-setup-teardown_context_1.png)

Note that a task that was already instantiated outside of the context manager can still be added to the scope, but you have to do this explicitly using the `.add_task()` method on the context manager object.

```python
# task instantiation outside of the context manager
worker_task_1_obj = worker_task_1()

with my_cluster_teardown_task_obj.as_teardown(
    setups=my_cluster_setup_task_obj
) as my_scope:
    # adding the task to the context manager
    my_scope.add_task(worker_task_1_obj)
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> #### Using multiple setup/teardown tasks in one grouping

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Using multiple setup/teardown tasks in one workflow
```

To define several setup tasks for one teardown task, you can pass a list of setup tasks to the `setups` argument. You do not need to call `.as_setup()` on any of the setup tasks.

```python
(
    [my_setup_task_obj_1, my_setup_task_obj_2, my_setup_task_obj_3]
    >> worker_task()
    >> my_teardown_task().as_teardown(
        setups=[my_setup_task_obj_1, my_setup_task_obj_2, my_setup_task_obj_3]
    )
)
```

![Setup/teardown relationships multiple setup](/img/guides/airflow-setup-teardown-multiple_setups_decorators.png)

To define several teardown tasks for one setup task, you have to provide the setup task object to the `setups` argument of the `.as_teardown()` method of each teardown task.

```python
(
    my_setup_task_obj
    >> worker_task()
    >> [
        my_teardown_task_obj_1.as_teardown(setups=my_setup_task_obj),
        my_teardown_task_obj_2.as_teardown(setups=my_setup_task_obj),
        my_teardown_task_obj_3.as_teardown(setups=my_setup_task_obj),
    ]
)
```

![Setup/teardown relationships multiple setup](/img/guides/airflow-setup-teardown-multiple_teardowns_decorators.png)

> If your setup/teardown grouping contains more than one setup and one teardown task, you need to define several dependencies, when not using the `setups` argument. Each setup task needs to be set as an upstream dependency to each teardown task. The example below shows a setup/teardown grouping of two setup tasks and two teardown tasks. To define the grouping four dependencies need to be set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your setup/teardown workflow contains more than one setup and one teardown task, you need to define several dependencies, when not using the `setups` argument. Each setup task needs to be set as an upstream dependency to each teardown task. The example below shows a setup/teardown workflow of two setup tasks and two teardown tasks. To define the workflow, you need to set four dependencies.
```

```python
(
    [my_setup_task_obj_1.as_setup(), my_setup_task_obj_2.as_setup()]
    >> worker_task()
    >> [my_teardown_task_obj_1.as_teardown(), my_teardown_task_obj_2.as_teardown()]
)

# defining the dependency between each setup and each teardown task
my_setup_task_obj_1 >> my_teardown_task_obj_1
my_setup_task_obj_1 >> my_teardown_task_obj_2
my_setup_task_obj_2 >> my_teardown_task_obj_1
my_setup_task_obj_2 >> my_teardown_task_obj_2
```

This code creates an identical DAG using the `setups` argument.

```python
(
    [my_setup_task_obj_1, my_setup_task_obj_2]
    >> worker_task()
    >> [
        my_teardown_task_obj_1.as_teardown(
            setups=[my_setup_task_obj_1, my_setup_task_obj_2]
        ),
        my_teardown_task_obj_2.as_teardown(
            setups=[my_setup_task_obj_1, my_setup_task_obj_2]
        ),
    ]
)
```

![Multiple setups/teardowns](/img/guides/airflow-setup-teardown-multiple_setups_and_teardowns.png)

> #### Parallel setup/teardown groupings
> 
> You can have several independent sets of setup and teardown tasks in the same DAG. For example, you might have a grouping of tasks that sets up and tears down a cluster and another grouping that sets up and tears down a temporary database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Parallel setup/teardown workflows

You can have several independent sets of setup and teardown tasks in the same DAG. For example, you might have a workflow of tasks that sets up and tears down a cluster and another workflow that sets up and tears down a temporary database.
```

    print("Setting up my database!")
    my_database_name = "DWH"
    return my_database_name

@task
def my_database_worker_task():
    return "Doing some work!"

@task
def my_database_teardown_task(my_database_name):
    return f"Tearing down {my_database_name}!"

my_setup_task_obj = my_cluster_setup_task()
(
    my_setup_task_obj
    >> my_cluster_worker_task()
    >> my_cluster_teardown_task(my_setup_task_obj).as_teardown(
        setups=my_setup_task_obj
    )
)

my_database_setup_obj = my_database_setup_task()
(
    my_database_setup_obj
    >> my_database_worker_task()
    >> my_database_teardown_task(my_database_setup_obj).as_teardown(
        setups=my_database_setup_obj
    )
)
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

![Parallel groups of Setup/teardown](/img/guides/airflow-setup-teardown-parallel_st.png)

#### Nested setup/teardown groupings

You can nest setup and teardown tasks to have an outer and inner scope. This is useful if you have basic resources, such as a cluster that you want to set up once and then tear down after all the work is done, but you also have resources running on that cluster that you want to set up and tear down for individual groups of tasks.

> The example below shows the dependency code for a simple structure with an outer and inner setup/teardown grouping:
> 
> - `outer_setup` and `outer_teardown` are the outer setup and teardown tasks.
> - `inner_setup` and `inner_teardown` are the inner setup and teardown tasks and both are in scope of the outer setup/teardown grouping.
> - `inner_worker_1` and `inner_worker_2` are worker tasks that are in scope of the inner setup/teardown grouping. All tasks in scope of the inner setup/teardown grouping will also be in scope of the outer setup/teardown grouping.
> - `outer_worker_1`, `outer_worker_2`, `outer_worker_3` are worker tasks that are in scope of the outer setup/teardown grouping.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The example below shows the dependency code for a simple structure with an outer and inner setup/teardown grouping:

- `outer_setup` and `outer_teardown` are the outer setup and teardown tasks.
- `inner_setup` and `inner_teardown` are the inner setup and teardown tasks and both are in scope of the outer setup/teardown workflow.
- `inner_worker_1` and `inner_worker_2` are worker tasks that are in scope of the inner setup/teardown workflow. All tasks in scope of the inner setup/teardown workflow will also be in scope of the outer setup/teardown workflow.
- `outer_worker_1`, `outer_worker_2`, `outer_worker_3` are worker tasks that are in scope of the outer setup/teardown workflow.
```

### Narrowing the scope of a setup task

If you have a setup task with no associated downstream task, you can narrow the scope of the setup task by using an empty task as its teardown. For example, if `my_worker_task_3_obj` does not need the resources created by `my_setup_task` and should not cause a rerun of the setup task when cleared, you can add an empty teardown task in the dependency chain:

```python
my_setup_task >> [my_worker_task_1_obj >> my_worker_task_2_obj] >> my_worker_task_3_obj

[my_worker_task_1_obj >> my_worker_task_2_obj] >> EmptyOperator(
    task_id="empty_task"
).as_teardown(setups=my_setup_task)
```

## Example DAG

The DAG shown in this example mimics a setup/teardown pattern that you can run locally: 

- The `create_csv` file will create a CSV file in a directory specified as a [DAG param](airflow-params.md). This task has been turned into a setup task.
- The `delete_csv` task is the associated teardown task, deleting the resource of the CSV file.

> - The `fetch_data`, `write_to_csv` and `get_average_age_obj` tasks are in the scope of the setup/teardown grouping. Any failure in these tasks would still need the resource "CSV file" to be deleted afterwards (to make it more real, consider the CSV file to be an expensive cluster). To recover from a failure when rerunning any of these tasks, you always need the CSV file to be created again, which automatically happens by rerunning the `create_csv` task when any of the tasks in scope are cleared.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `fetch_data`, `write_to_csv` and `get_average_age_obj` tasks are in the scope of the setup/teardown workflow. Any failure in these tasks would still need the resource "CSV file" to be deleted afterwards (to make it more real, consider the CSV file to be an expensive cluster). To recover from a failure when rerunning any of these tasks, you always need the CSV file to be created again, which automatically happens by rerunning the `create_csv` task when any of the tasks in scope are cleared.
```

## Special behavior of setup tasks

You can have a setup task without an associated teardown task and vice versa. If you define a setup task without a teardown task everything downstream of the setup task is considered in its scope and will cause the setup task to rerun when cleared. 

For example for the code snippet below, when any of the worker tasks are cleared, `my_setup_task` will also be rerun.

```python
(
    my_setup_task.as_setup()
    >> [my_worker_task_1_obj >> my_worker_task_2_obj]
    >> my_worker_task_3_obj
)
```

An easy way to narrow the scope of a setup task is to use an empty task as its teardown. For example, if `my_worker_task_3_obj` does not need the resources created by `my_setup_task` and should not cause a rerun of the setup task when cleared:

```python
my_setup_task >> [my_worker_task_1_obj >> my_worker_task_2_obj] >> my_worker_task_3_obj

[my_worker_task_1_obj >> my_worker_task_2_obj] >> EmptyOperator(
    task_id="empty_task"
).as_teardown(setups=my_setup_task)
```
 

> ## Special behavior of teardown tasks

Reviewer: I think any type of behavior information should be up front, before we talk about implementation. Let's work this into an initial section with the concept one you currently have. Same with special behavior of setup.

If you have a setup task with no associated downstream task, you can narrow the scope of the setup task by using an empty task as its teardown. For example, if `my_worker_task_3_obj` does not need the resources created by `my_setup_task` and should not cause a rerun of the setup task when cleared, you can add an empty teardown task in the dependency chain:

```python
my_setup_task >> [my_worker_task_1_obj >> my_worker_task_2_obj] >> my_worker_task_3_obj

[my_worker_task_1_obj >> my_worker_task_2_obj] >> EmptyOperator(
    task_id="empty_task"
).as_teardown(setups=my_setup_task)
```

## Example DAG

The DAG shown in this example mimics a setup/ teardown pattern that you can run locally. The setup/ teardown workflow consists of the following tasks: 

- The `create_csv` task is a setup task that creates a CSV file in a directory specified as a [DAG param](airflow-params.md).
- The `write_to_csv` task is a setup task that writes data to the CSV file.
- The `fetch_data` task is a setup task that fetches data from a remote source and writes it to the CSV file. 
- The `delete_csv` task is the associated teardown task and deletes the resource of the CSV file.

> - The `get_average_age_obj` task is in scope of setup/ teardown workflow. If this task fails, the DAG still needs to delete the "CSV file" afterwards (to make it more real, consider the CSV file to be an expensive cluster). 

Author: ```suggestion
- The `get_average_age_obj` task is in scope of the setup/ teardown workflow. If this task fails, the DAG still needs to delete the "CSV file" afterwards (to make it more real, consider the CSV file to be an expensive cluster). 
```

## Example DAG

The DAG shown in this example mimics a setup/ teardown pattern that you can run locally. The setup/ teardown workflow consists of the following tasks: 

> - The `create_csv` task will create a CSV file in a directory specified as a [DAG param](airflow-params.md). This task has been turned into a setup task.
> - The `write_to_csv` task will write data to the CSV file. This task has been turned into a setup task.
> - The `fetch_data` task will fetch data from a remote source and write it to the CSV file.  This task has been turned into a setup task.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `create_csv` task is a setup task that creates a CSV file in a directory specified as a [DAG param](airflow-params.md).
- The `write_to_csv` task is a setup task that writes data to the CSV file.
- The `fetch_data` task is a setup task that fetches data from a remote source and writes it to the CSV file. 
```

> - The `delete_csv` task is the associated teardown task, deleting the resource of the CSV file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `delete_csv` task is the associated teardown task and deletes the resource of the CSV file.
```

> - The `get_average_age_obj` task is in the scope of the setup/ teardown workflow. A failure of this task would still need the resource "CSV file" to be deleted afterwards (to make it more real, consider the CSV file to be an expensive cluster). To recover from a failure when rerunning the `get_average_age_obj` task, you always need the CSV file to be created again, as well as the data to be fetched again and written to the CSV file. This automatically happens by rerunning the `create_csv`, `write_to_csv` and `fetch_data` tasks when the task in the scope of this setup/teardown workflow `get_average_age_obj` is cleared.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `get_average_age_obj` task is in scope of setup/ teardown workflow. If this task fails, the DAG still needs to delete the "CSV file" afterwards (to make it more real, consider the CSV file to be an expensive cluster). 

    To recover from a failure when rerunning the `get_average_age_obj` task, you always need the CSV file to be created again, as well as the data to be fetched again and written to the CSV file. Because the task is in scope of `create_csv`, `write_to_csv`, and `fetch_data`, these tasks will also rerun when you rerun `get_average_age_obj`.
```

> The DAG contains 3 tasks which are not part of the setup/ teardown workflow:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The DAG contains 3 tasks which are not in scope of the setup/ teardown workflow:
```

- The `start` task is an empty task at the start of the DAG.
- The `report_file_path` task is a task that prints the path of the CSV file to the logs.
- The `end` task is an empty task at the end of the DAG.

> This DAG comes with a convenience parameter to test setup/ teardown functionality. Toggle `fetch_bad_data` in the **Trigger DAG** view to cause bad data to get into the pipeline and the `get_average_age_obj` to fail. You will see that `delete_csv` will still run and delete the CSV file. In a real-world scenario, after fixing the data issue you would clear the `get_average_age_obj` task and all tasks of the setup/ teardown workflow can rerun and complete successfully.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This DAG comes with a convenience parameter to test setup/ teardown functionality. Toggle `fetch_bad_data` in the **Trigger DAG** view to cause bad data to get into the pipeline and the `get_average_age_obj` to fail. You will see that `delete_csv` will still run and delete the CSV file. In a real-world scenario, after fixing the data issue you would clear the `get_average_age_obj` task and all tasks of the setup/ teardown workflow would rerun and complete successfully.
```
